README.md, before:

<p align="center"> <img src="https://www.mybusiness.com.au/images/my-business-logo.png">


# About
My Buisness is a business management tool featuring featuring accounts, invoices, partners, projects, and server.

# Installation

Make sure `Python >= 3.6` and `pip` are installed before proceeding with the installation instructions.

*Note: If you are following these instructions when deploying My Buisness, it is **highly** recommended that you clone the repository in `/srv`.*

1. Clone this repository.

2. Change the directory to `my-buisness` using `$ cd my-buisness/`.

3. Create a virtual environment using `$ python3 -m venv venv`.

4. Activate the virtual environment using `$ source venv/bin/activate`.

5. Install the external `pdftk` dependency using `$ apt install pdftk` for Debian based distributions.
   
   *Note: You may face issues installing `pdftk` on Ubuntu 18.04. Visit [this](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1028522/how-can-i-install-pdftk-in-ubuntu-18-04-and-later) link for further instructions.*

6. Install the `Python` dependencies using `$ pip install -r requirements.txt`.

   *Note: You can safely ignore any errors about `bdist_wheel`.*

7. Change the directory to `my-buisness` using `$ cd my-buisness/`.

8. Create `config.ini` by making of copy of `config.ini.defaults` using `$ cp config.ini.defaults config.ini`.

9. Edit `config.ini` with your preferred text editor and make changes to the configuration (if necessary).

   *Note:My Buisness is using a SQLite3 database while `DEBUG=True`. You don't need to specify a database user or password.*

8. Apply the migrations using `$ python manage.py migrate`.

9. Create a superuser account using `$ python manage.py createsuperuser`.

10. Enable the `Cron Jobs` using `$ python manage.py crontab add`. (You need to be logged in as the user that's running the server).

You should now have a development version of the My Buisness` accessible at `localhost:8000` or `127.0.0.1:8000`.

# Development

*Always activate the virtual environment before performing operations.*

- Run the server using `$ python manage.py runserver`.

- Stop the server by pressing `Ctrl-C`.

*If you want My Buisness to send emails to the console while developing, edit `my-buisness/common/settings.py` and replace the value of `EMAIL_BACKED` with `'django.core.mail.backends.console.EmailBackend'`. Don't forget to undo this before committing!*

# Deployment

*Follow the installation instructions before continuing. If you are running the Django server, press Control-C to close it.*

*Make sure you have `root` privileges.*
## Django configuration

1. Collect the static files (by default in `/var/www/my-buisness/static/`) using `$ python manage.py collectstatic`.

2. Generate a `SECRET_KEY` using `$ python -c 'from django.core.management.utils import get_random_secret_key; print(get_random_secret_key())'`.

3. Copy the returned key to your clipboard because we will need it soon.

4. Edit `config.ini` with your preferred text editor and replace the current `SECRET_KEY` with the one you generated earlier (it's in your clipboard, right!?).

## Firewall configuration
**If you have a firewall set up (recommended), make sure to open ports 80 and 443.**

- If you have `UFW` set up:
  - Run `$ ufw allow http`.
  - Run `$ ufw allow https`.

- If don't have `UFW` and have only `iptables` set up:
  - Open `/etc/sysconfig/iptables` for editing using your preferred text editor.
  - Add the following lines to the file if they do not already exist, then save and exit:
```
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
```

## Installing additional dependencies
- Install Gunicorn using `$ pip install gunicorn`.
- Install Nginx using `$ apt install nginx`.
- Install Certbot using `$ apt install python3-certbot-nginx`.

*Note: Make sure to edit the file and directory paths accordingly in the instructions below.*

<p align="center"><a href="https://github.com/yezz123"><img src="http://randojs.com/images/barsSmall.gif" alt="Animated footer bars" width="100%"/></a></p>

## Setting up the Gunicorn service
- Edit `/etc/systemd/system/gunicorn_bt.socket` using your preferred text editor and add the following to the file:
```
[Unit]
Description=gunicorn bt socket

[Socket]
ListenStream=/run/gunicorn_bt.sock

[Install]
WantedBy=sockets.target
```
- Edit `/etc/systemd/system/gunicorn_bt.service` using your preferred text editor and add the following to the file:
```
[Unit]
Description=gunicorn bt daemon
Requires=gunicorn_bt.socket
After=network.target

[Service]
User=www-data
Group=www-data
WorkingDirectory=/srv/my-buisness
ExecStart=/srv/business-tracer/venv/bin/gunicorn \
          --access-logfile - \
          --workers 3 \
          --bind unix:/run/gunicorn_bt.sock \
          common.wsgi:application

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
- Start the Gunicorn socket using `$ systemctl start gunicorn_bt.socket`.
- Enable the Gunicorn socket (to run at startup) using `$ systemctl enable gunicorn_bt.socket`.

## Setting up Nginx
- Remove the `default` configuration from `sites-enabled` using `$ rm /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default`.
- Edit `/etc/nginx/sites-available/blog` using your preferred text editor and add the following to the file:

*Note: Make sure to replace `YOUR_FULLY_QUALIFIED_DOMAIN_NAME` with your [FQDN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name).

```
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name YOUR_FULLY_QUALIFIED_DOMAIN_NAME;

    location = /favicon.ico { access_log off; log_not_found off; }

    location /static/ {
        root /var/www/my-buisness;
    }

    location /media/ {
        root /var/www/my-buisness;
    }

    location / {
        include proxy_params;
        proxy_pass http://unix:/run/gunicorn_bt.sock;
    }
}
```

- Enable the Nginx config using `$ ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/my-buisness /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/my-buisness`.
- Restart Nginx using `$ systemctl restart nginx`.

Commit message:

Setting up the HTTPS certificate ⚡

README.md, after:

<p align="center"> <img src="https://www.mybusiness.com.au/images/my-business-logo.png">


# About
My Buisness is a business management tool featuring featuring accounts, invoices, partners, projects, and server.

# Installation

Make sure `Python >= 3.6` and `pip` are installed before proceeding with the installation instructions.

*Note: If you are following these instructions when deploying My Buisness, it is **highly** recommended that you clone the repository in `/srv`.*

1. Clone this repository.

2. Change the directory to `my-buisness` using `$ cd my-buisness/`.

3. Create a virtual environment using `$ python3 -m venv venv`.

4. Activate the virtual environment using `$ source venv/bin/activate`.

5. Install the external `pdftk` dependency using `$ apt install pdftk` for Debian based distributions.
   
   *Note: You may face issues installing `pdftk` on Ubuntu 18.04. Visit [this](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1028522/how-can-i-install-pdftk-in-ubuntu-18-04-and-later) link for further instructions.*

6. Install the `Python` dependencies using `$ pip install -r requirements.txt`.

   *Note: You can safely ignore any errors about `bdist_wheel`.*

7. Change the directory to `my-buisness` using `$ cd my-buisness/`.

8. Create `config.ini` by making of copy of `config.ini.defaults` using `$ cp config.ini.defaults config.ini`.

9. Edit `config.ini` with your preferred text editor and make changes to the configuration (if necessary).

   *Note:My Buisness is using a SQLite3 database while `DEBUG=True`. You don't need to specify a database user or password.*

8. Apply the migrations using `$ python manage.py migrate`.

9. Create a superuser account using `$ python manage.py createsuperuser`.

10. Enable the `Cron Jobs` using `$ python manage.py crontab add`. (You need to be logged in as the user that's running the server).

You should now have a development version of the My Buisness` accessible at `localhost:8000` or `127.0.0.1:8000`.

# Development

*Always activate the virtual environment before performing operations.*

- Run the server using `$ python manage.py runserver`.

- Stop the server by pressing `Ctrl-C`.

*If you want My Buisness to send emails to the console while developing, edit `my-buisness/common/settings.py` and replace the value of `EMAIL_BACKED` with `'django.core.mail.backends.console.EmailBackend'`. Don't forget to undo this before committing!*

# Deployment

*Follow the installation instructions before continuing. If you are running the Django server, press Control-C to close it.*

*Make sure you have `root` privileges.*
## Django configuration

1. Collect the static files (by default in `/var/www/my-buisness/static/`) using `$ python manage.py collectstatic`.

2. Generate a `SECRET_KEY` using `$ python -c 'from django.core.management.utils import get_random_secret_key; print(get_random_secret_key())'`.

3. Copy the returned key to your clipboard because we will need it soon.

4. Edit `config.ini` with your preferred text editor and replace the current `SECRET_KEY` with the one you generated earlier (it's in your clipboard, right!?).

## Firewall configuration
**If you have a firewall set up (recommended), make sure to open ports 80 and 443.**

- If you have `UFW` set up:
  - Run `$ ufw allow http`.
  - Run `$ ufw allow https`.

- If don't have `UFW` and have only `iptables` set up:
  - Open `/etc/sysconfig/iptables` for editing using your preferred text editor.
  - Add the following lines to the file if they do not already exist, then save and exit:
```
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
```

## Installing additional dependencies
- Install Gunicorn using `$ pip install gunicorn`.
- Install Nginx using `$ apt install nginx`.
- Install Certbot using `$ apt install python3-certbot-nginx`.

*Note: Make sure to edit the file and directory paths accordingly in the instructions below.*

## Setting up the Gunicorn service
- Edit `/etc/systemd/system/gunicorn_bt.socket` using your preferred text editor and add the following to the file:
```
[Unit]
Description=gunicorn bt socket

[Socket]
ListenStream=/run/gunicorn_bt.sock

[Install]
WantedBy=sockets.target
```
- Edit `/etc/systemd/system/gunicorn_bt.service` using your preferred text editor and add the following to the file:
```
[Unit]
Description=gunicorn bt daemon
Requires=gunicorn_bt.socket
After=network.target

[Service]
User=www-data
Group=www-data
WorkingDirectory=/srv/my-buisness
ExecStart=/srv/business-tracer/venv/bin/gunicorn \
          --access-logfile - \
          --workers 3 \
          --bind unix:/run/gunicorn_bt.sock \
          common.wsgi:application

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
- Start the Gunicorn socket using `$ systemctl start gunicorn_bt.socket`.
- Enable the Gunicorn socket (to run at startup) using `$ systemctl enable gunicorn_bt.socket`.

## Setting up Nginx
- Remove the `default` configuration from `sites-enabled` using `$ rm /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default`.
- Edit `/etc/nginx/sites-available/blog` using your preferred text editor and add the following to the file:

*Note: Make sure to replace `YOUR_FULLY_QUALIFIED_DOMAIN_NAME` with your [FQDN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name).

```
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name YOUR_FULLY_QUALIFIED_DOMAIN_NAME;

    location = /favicon.ico { access_log off; log_not_found off; }

    location /static/ {
        root /var/www/my-buisness;
    }

    location /media/ {
        root /var/www/my-buisness;
    }

    location / {
        include proxy_params;
        proxy_pass http://unix:/run/gunicorn_bt.sock;
    }
}
```

- Enable the Nginx config using `$ ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/my-buisness /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/my-buisness`.
- Restart Nginx using `$ systemctl restart nginx`.

## Setting up the HTTPS certificate

*Note: Make sure to replace `YOUR_FULLY_QUALIFIED_DOMAIN_NAME` with your [FQDN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fully_qualified_domain_name).

- Create an HTTPS certificate with Certbot using `$ certbot --nginx -d YOUR_FULLY_QUALIFIED_DOMAIN_NAME`.
- Follow the script instructions.
- You should choose option 2 (Redirect) when the script asks if you want users to be redirected to the `HTTPS` version of the website if they try accessing the `HTTP` version.

Good job! You should now have a running instance of My Buisness.

<p align="center"><a href="https://github.com/yezz123"><img src="http://randojs.com/images/barsSmall.gif" alt="Animated footer bars" width="100%"/></a></p>
